---
title: "A SINS/GNSS/2D-LDV integrated navigation scheme for unmanned ground vehicles"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2023/2023-MST
name: '<i><strong>Zhiyi Xiang</strong>, Tao Zhang, Qi Wang, Shilong Jin, Xiaoming Nie, Chengfang Duan, Jian Zhou<sup>*</sup></i>'
date: 2023-12-01
venue: 'Measurement Science and Technology'
paperurl: '/files/pub/2023 MST Navigation.pdf'
citation: 'Z. Xiang, T. Zhang, Q. Wang, S. Jin, X. Nie, C. Duan, and J. Zhou, &quot;A SINS/GNSS/2D-LDV integrated navigation scheme for unmanned ground vehicles,&quot; <i>Meas. Sci. Technol</i>, vol. 34, no. 12, p. 125116, Dec. 2023.'
Bib: '/files/Bib/MST-2023.bib'
Weblink: 'https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/1361-6501/acf2b4/meta'
---

<font color="#006400"><i><strong>Zhiyi Xiang</strong>, Tao Zhang, Qi Wang, Shilong Jin, Xiaoming Nie, Chengfang Duan, Jian Zhou<sup>*</sup></i></font>
------

**Abstract**
------
In recent years, unmanned autonomous driving technology has attracted increasing attention from people, and become a research hotspot. Currently, the integration of strapdown inertial navigation system (SINS) and global navigation satellite systems (GNSSs) is the most common and effective navigation and positioning scheme for unmanned ground vehicles (UGVs) and unmanned aerial vehicles. However, this integrated system is unable to maintain a reliable positioning solution in challenging environments due to the inherent weakness of GNSS signals and the accumulation of SINS positioning errors over time. To address this issue, this paper proposes an integrated scheme based on an asynchronous Kalman filter for SINS, GNSS and two-dimensional (2D) laser Doppler velocimeter (LDV). In the proposed scheme, the SINS and 2D-LDV are tightly coupled to improve the robustness of the integrated system, and the error parameters between the 2D-LDV and the SINS are calibrated in real time during the validity of the GNSS signal. In addition, the designed asynchronous Kalman filter method evaluates the validity of the GNSS and 2D-LDV measurements in real time based on Mahalanobis distance of innovation vector and statistical property principle. Two groups of long-distance, high-mobility vehicle experiments conducted in challenging environments verify the validity of the proposed scheme. The experimental results show that the proposed SINS/GNSS/2D-LDV integrated navigation scheme has good environmental adaptability and reliability, and can maintain high horizontal and vertical positioning accuracy despite frequent GNSS signal failures, which can meet the needs of UGVs.

------

**Keywords**
------
- SINS/GNSS/2D-LDV integrated navigation scheme
- 2D-LDV
- Asynchronous Kalman filter
- Mahalanobis distance

------